compute/admin_guide/install/deploy-defender/orchestrator/openshift.adoc, before:

== Deploy Defender on OpenShift v4

Prisma Cloud Defenders are deployed as a DaemonSet, which ensures that an instance of Defender runs on every node in the cluster.
You can run Defenders on OpenShift master and infrastructure nodes by removing the taint from them.

The Prisma Cloud Defender container images can be stored either in the internal OpenShift registry or your own Docker v2 compliant registry.
ifdef::compute_edition[]
Alternatively, you can configure your deployments to pull images from xref:../../deploy-console/container-images.adoc[Prisma Cloud's cloud registry].
endif::compute_edition[]
This guide shows you how to generate deployment YAML files for Defenders, and then deploy them to your OpenShift cluster with the _oc_ client.

To better understand clusters, read our xref:../../cluster-context.adoc[cluster context] topic.

=== Preflight checklist

To ensure that your installation on supported versions of OpenShift v4.x goes smoothly, work through the following checklist and validate that all requirements are met.

==== Minimum system requirements

Validate that the components in your environment (nodes, host operating systems, orchestrator) meet the specs in
xref:../../system_requirements.adoc[System requirements].

==== Permissions

Validate that you have permission to:

* Push to a private docker registry.
For most OpenShift setups, the registry runs inside the cluster as a service.
You must be able to authenticate with your registry with docker login.

* Pull images from your registry.
This might require the creation of a docker-registry secret.

* Have the correct role bindings to pull and push to the registry.
For more information, see https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.10/install_config/registry/accessing_registry.html[Accessing the Registry].

* Create and delete projects in your cluster.
For OpenShift installations, a project is created when you run _oc new-project_.

* Run _oc create_ commands.

==== Network connectivity

Validate that outbound connections to your Console can be made on port 443.

Use xref:../../../tools/twistcli.adoc[_twistcli_] to install the Prisma Cloud Defenders in your OpenShift cluster.
The _twistcli_ utility is included with every release.


[.task]
==== Create an OpenShift project for Prisma Cloud

Create a project named _twistlock_.

[.procedure]
. Login to the OpenShift cluster and create the _twistlock_ project:
+
[source]
----
  $ oc new-project twistlock
----

[.task]
==== (Optional) Push the Prisma Cloud images to a private registry

When Prisma Cloud is deployed to your cluster, the images are retrieved from a registry.
You have a number of options for storing the Prisma Cloud Console and Defender images:

* OpenShift internal registry.

* Private Docker v2 registry.
You must create a docker-secret to authenticate with the registry.

ifdef::compute_edition[]
Alternatively, you can pull the images from the xref:../../deploy-console/container-images.adoc[Prisma Cloud cloud registry] at deployment time.
endif::compute_edition[]
Your cluster nodes must be able to connect to the Prisma Cloud cloud registry (registry-auth.twistlock.com) with TLS on TCP port 443.

This guides shows you how to use both the OpenShift internal registry and the Prisma Cloud cloud registry.
If you're going to use the Prisma Cloud cloud registry, you can skip this section.
Otherwise, this procedure shows you how to pull, tag, and upload the Prisma Cloud images to the OpenShift internal registry's _twistlock_ imageStream.

[.procedure]
. Determine the endpoint for your OpenShift internal registry.
Use either the internal registry's service name or cluster IP.
+
[source]
----
  $ oc get svc -n default
  NAME               TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)       AGE
  docker-registry    ClusterIP   172.30.163.181   <none>        5000/TCP      88d
----

. Pull the image from the Prisma Cloud cloud registry using your access token.
The major, minor, and patch numerals in the <VERSION> string are separated with an underscore.
For exampe, 18.11.128 would be 18_11_128.
+
[source]
----
  $ docker pull \
    registry-auth.twistlock.com/tw_<ACCESS_TOKEN>/twistlock/defender:defender_<VERSION>
----

. Tag the image for the OpenShift internal registry.
+
[source]
----
  $ docker tag \
    registry-auth.twistlock.com/tw_<ACCESS_TOKEN>/twistlock/defender:defender_<VERSION> \
    172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION>
----

. Push the image to the _twistlock_ project's imageStream.
+
[source]
----
  $ docker push 172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION>
----

ifdef::compute_edition[]
[#install-defender-openshift]
==== Install Defender

Prisma Cloud Defenders run as containers on the nodes in your OpenShift cluster.
They are deployed as a DaemonSet.
Use the _twistcli_ tool to generate the DaemonSet deployment YAML or helm chart.

The command has the following basic structure
It creates a YAML file named _defender.yaml_  or a helm chart _twistlock-defender-helm.tar.gz_ in the working directory.

Example for export of a YAML file:

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address <ADDRESS> \
    --cluster-address <CLUSTER-ADDRESS> \
    --cri

Example for export of a Helm chart:

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address <ADDRESS> \
    --cluster-address <CLUSTER-ADDRESS> \
    --helm \
    --cri

The command connects to Console’s API, specified in _--address_, to generate the Defender DaemonSet YAML config file or helm chart.
The location where you run twistcli (inside or outside the cluster) dictates which Console address should be supplied.

The _--cluster-address_ flag specifies the address Defender uses to connect to Console.
For Defenders deployed inside the cluster, specify Prisma Cloud Console’s service name, twistlock-console or twistlock-console.twistlock.svc, or cluster IP address.
For Defenders deployed outside the cluster, specify the external route for the Console over port 8084 created before, _twistlock-console-8084.apps.ose.example.com_, if the external route is not exposing port 8084, specify the port in the address, e.g. _twistlock-console-8084.apps.ose.example.com:443_ within the defender daemonSet yaml.

Example: Edit the resulting defender.yaml and change:
   - name: WS_ADDRESS
            value: wss://twistlock-console-8084.apps.ose.example.com:8084
to
  - name: WS_ADDRESS
            value: wss://twistlock-console-8084.apps.ose.example.com:443

If SELinux is enabled on the OpenShift nodes, pass the _--selinux-enabled_ argument to twistcli.

For managed clusters, Prisma Cloud automatically gets the cluster name from the cloud provider.
To override the the cloud provider’s cluster name, use the _--cluster_ option.
For self-managed clusters, manually specify a cluster name with the _--cluster_ option.

[.task]
===== Option #1: Deploy with YAML files

Deploy the Defender DaemonSet with YAML files.

[.procedure]
. Generate the Defender DaemonSet YAML.
A number of command variations are provided.
Use them as a basis for constructing your own working command.
+
*Outside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the  Prisma Cloud cloud registry.*
Use the OpenShift external route for your Prisma Cloud Console, _--address \https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com_.
Designate Prisma Cloud's cloud registry by omitting the _--image-name_ flag. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _cri_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --selinux-enabled \
    --cri
+
*Outside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the OpenShift internal registry.*
Use the _--image-name_ flag to designate an image from the OpenShift internal registry. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _cri_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --selinux-enabled \
    --image-name 172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION> \
    --cri
+
*Inside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the Prisma Cloud cloud registry.*
When generating the Defender DaemonSet YAML with twistcli from a node inside the cluster, use Console's service name (twistlock-console) or cluster IP in the _--cluster-address_ flag.
This flag specifies the endpoint for the Prisma Cloud Compute API and must include the port number. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _cri_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://172.30.41.62:8083 \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --selinux-enabled \
    --cri
+
*Inside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the OpenShift internal registry.*
Use the _--image-name_ flag to designate an image in the OpenShift internal registry. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _-cri_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://172.30.41.62:8083 \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --selinux-enabled \
    --image-name 172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION> \
    --cri

. Deploy the Defender DaemonSet.

  $ oc create -f ./defender.yaml


[.task]
===== Option #2: Deploy with Helm chart

Deploy the Defender DaemonSet with a Helm chart.

// https://github.com/twistlock/twistlock/issues/13333

Prisma Cloud Defenders Helm charts fail to install on OpenShift 4 clusters due to a Helm bug.
If you generate a Helm chart, and try to install it in an OpenShift 4 cluster, you'll get the following error:

  Error: unable to recognize "": no matches for kind "SecurityContextConstraints" in version "v1"

To work around the issue, you'll need to manually modify the generated Helm chart.

[.procedure]
. Generate the Defender DaemonSet helm chart.
A number of command variations are provided.
Use them as a basis for constructing your own working command.
+
*Outside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the  Prisma Cloud cloud registry.*
Use the OpenShift external route for your Prisma Cloud Console, _--address \https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com_.
Designate Prisma Cloud's cloud registry by omitting the _--image-name_ flag. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _-cri_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --helm \
    --cri
+
*Outside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the OpenShift internal registry.*
Use the _--image-name_ flag to designate an image from the OpenShift internal registry. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _-cri_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --image-name 172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION> \
    --helm \
    --cri
+
*Inside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the Prisma Cloud cloud registry.*
When generating the Defender DaemonSet YAML with twistcli from a node inside the cluster, use Console's service name (twistlock-console) or cluster IP in the _--cluster-address_ flag.
This flag specifies the endpoint for the Prisma Cloud Compute API and must include the port number. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _-cri_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://172.30.41.62:8083 \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --helm \
    --cri
+
*Inside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the OpenShift internal registry.*
Use the _--image-name_ flag to designate an image in the OpenShift internal registry. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _-cri_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://172.30.41.62:8083 \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --image-name 172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION> \
    --helm \
    --cri

. Unpack the chart into a temporary directory.

  $ mkdir helm-defender
  $ tar xvzf twistlock-defender-helm.tar.gz -C helm-defender/

. Open _helm-console/twistlock-defender/templates/securitycontextconstraints.yaml_ for editing.

. Change `apiVersion` from `v1` to `security.openshift.io/v1`.
+
[source,yaml]
----
{{- if .Values.openshift }}
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
metadata:
name: twistlock-console
...
----

. Repack the Helm chart

  $ cd helm-defender/
  $ tar cvzf twistlock-defender-helm.tar.gz twistlock-defender/

. Install the updated Helm chart.

  $ helm install --namespace=twistlock -g twistlock-defender-helm.tar.gz

==== Confirm the Defenders were deployed.

.. In Prisma Cloud Console, go to *Manage > Defenders > Manage* to see a list of deployed Defenders.
+
image::install_openshift_tl_defenders.png[width=800]

.. In the OpenShift Web Console, go to the Prisma Cloud project's monitoring window to see which pods are running.
+
image::install_openshift_ose_defenders.png[width=800]

.. Using the OpenShift CLI to see the DaemonSet pod count.

  $ oc get ds -n twistlock

  NAME                    DESIRED   CURRENT   READY     UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR   AGE
  twistlock-defender-ds   4         3         3         3            3           <none>          29m
+
NOTE: The _desired_ and _current_ pod counts do not match.
This is a job for the nodeSelector.

endif::compute_edition[]


ifdef::prisma_cloud[]
=== Use OC to Deploy the Defender

You can deploy Defenders using the xref:install-oc.adoc[OpenShift OC].
endif::prisma_cloud[]

=== Control Defender deployments with taint

You can deploy Defenders to all nodes in an OpenShift cluster (master, infra, compute).
OpenShift Container Platform automatically taints infra and master nodes
These taints have the NoSchedule effect, which means no pod can be scheduled on them.

To run the Defenders on these nodes, you can either remove the taint or add a toleration to the Defender DaemonSet.
Once this is done, the Defender Daemonset will automatically be deployed to these nodes (no need to redeploy the Daemonset).
Adjust the guidance in the following procedure according to your organization's deployment strategy.

* *Option 1 - remove taint all nodes:*
+
  $ oc adm taint nodes --all node-role.kubernetes.io/master-

* *Option 2 - remove taint from specific nodes:*
+
  $ oc adm taint nodes <node-name> node-role.kubernetes.io/master-

* *Option 3 - add tolerations to the twistlock-defender-ds DaemonSet:*
+
  $ oc edit ds twistlock-defender-ds -n twistlock
+
Add the following toleration in PodSpec (DaemonSet.spec.template.spec)
+
  tolerations:
  - key: "node-role.kubernetes.io/master"
    operator: "Exists"
    effect: "NoSchedule"


[.task]
=== Uninstall

ifdef::compute_edition[]
To uninstall Prisma Cloud, delete the _twistlock_ project, then delete the Prisma Cloud PersistentVolume.

[.procedure]
. Delete the _twistlock_ Project

  $ oc delete project twistlock

. Delete the _twistlock_ PersistentVolume

  $ oc delete pv twistlock

endif::compute_edition[]

ifdef::prisma_cloud[]
To uninstall Prisma Cloud, delete the _twistlock_ project.

[.procedure]
. Delete the _twistlock_ Project
+
[source]
----
  $ oc delete project twistlock
----

endif::prisma_cloud[]

Commit message:

[Compute AG: CWP-48866 - Openshift]: Update container-runtime flag

compute/admin_guide/install/deploy-defender/orchestrator/openshift.adoc, after:

== Deploy Defender on OpenShift v4

Prisma Cloud Defenders are deployed as a DaemonSet, which ensures that an instance of Defender runs on every node in the cluster.
You can run Defenders on OpenShift master and infrastructure nodes by removing the taint from them.

The Prisma Cloud Defender container images can be stored either in the internal OpenShift registry or your own Docker v2 compliant registry.
ifdef::compute_edition[]
Alternatively, you can configure your deployments to pull images from xref:../../deploy-console/container-images.adoc[Prisma Cloud's cloud registry].
endif::compute_edition[]
This guide shows you how to generate deployment YAML files for Defenders, and then deploy them to your OpenShift cluster with the _oc_ client.

To better understand clusters, read our xref:../../cluster-context.adoc[cluster context] topic.

=== Preflight checklist

To ensure that your installation on supported versions of OpenShift v4.x goes smoothly, work through the following checklist and validate that all requirements are met.

==== Minimum system requirements

Validate that the components in your environment (nodes, host operating systems, orchestrator) meet the specs in
xref:../../system_requirements.adoc[System requirements].

==== Permissions

Validate that you have permission to:

* Push to a private docker registry.
For most OpenShift setups, the registry runs inside the cluster as a service.
You must be able to authenticate with your registry with docker login.

* Pull images from your registry.
This might require the creation of a docker-registry secret.

* Have the correct role bindings to pull and push to the registry.
For more information, see https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.10/install_config/registry/accessing_registry.html[Accessing the Registry].

* Create and delete projects in your cluster.
For OpenShift installations, a project is created when you run _oc new-project_.

* Run _oc create_ commands.

==== Network connectivity

Validate that outbound connections to your Console can be made on port 443.

Use xref:../../../tools/twistcli.adoc[_twistcli_] to install the Prisma Cloud Defenders in your OpenShift cluster.
The _twistcli_ utility is included with every release.


[.task]
==== Create an OpenShift project for Prisma Cloud

Create a project named _twistlock_.

[.procedure]
. Login to the OpenShift cluster and create the _twistlock_ project:
+
[source]
----
  $ oc new-project twistlock
----

[.task]
==== (Optional) Push the Prisma Cloud images to a private registry

When Prisma Cloud is deployed to your cluster, the images are retrieved from a registry.
You have a number of options for storing the Prisma Cloud Console and Defender images:

* OpenShift internal registry.

* Private Docker v2 registry.
You must create a docker-secret to authenticate with the registry.

ifdef::compute_edition[]
Alternatively, you can pull the images from the xref:../../deploy-console/container-images.adoc[Prisma Cloud cloud registry] at deployment time.
endif::compute_edition[]
Your cluster nodes must be able to connect to the Prisma Cloud cloud registry (registry-auth.twistlock.com) with TLS on TCP port 443.

This guides shows you how to use both the OpenShift internal registry and the Prisma Cloud cloud registry.
If you're going to use the Prisma Cloud cloud registry, you can skip this section.
Otherwise, this procedure shows you how to pull, tag, and upload the Prisma Cloud images to the OpenShift internal registry's _twistlock_ imageStream.

[.procedure]
. Determine the endpoint for your OpenShift internal registry.
Use either the internal registry's service name or cluster IP.
+
[source]
----
  $ oc get svc -n default
  NAME               TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)       AGE
  docker-registry    ClusterIP   172.30.163.181   <none>        5000/TCP      88d
----

. Pull the image from the Prisma Cloud cloud registry using your access token.
The major, minor, and patch numerals in the <VERSION> string are separated with an underscore.
For exampe, 18.11.128 would be 18_11_128.
+
[source]
----
  $ docker pull \
    registry-auth.twistlock.com/tw_<ACCESS_TOKEN>/twistlock/defender:defender_<VERSION>
----

. Tag the image for the OpenShift internal registry.
+
[source]
----
  $ docker tag \
    registry-auth.twistlock.com/tw_<ACCESS_TOKEN>/twistlock/defender:defender_<VERSION> \
    172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION>
----

. Push the image to the _twistlock_ project's imageStream.
+
[source]
----
  $ docker push 172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION>
----

ifdef::compute_edition[]
[#install-defender-openshift]
==== Install Defender

Prisma Cloud Defenders run as containers on the nodes in your OpenShift cluster.
They are deployed as a DaemonSet.
Use the _twistcli_ tool to generate the DaemonSet deployment YAML or helm chart.

The command has the following basic structure
It creates a YAML file named _defender.yaml_  or a helm chart _twistlock-defender-helm.tar.gz_ in the working directory.

Example for export of a YAML file:

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address <ADDRESS> \
    --cluster-address <CLUSTER-ADDRESS> \
    --container-runtime crio

Example for export of a Helm chart:

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address <ADDRESS> \
    --cluster-address <CLUSTER-ADDRESS> \
    --helm \
    --container-runtime crio

The command connects to Console’s API, specified in _--address_, to generate the Defender DaemonSet YAML config file or helm chart.
The location where you run twistcli (inside or outside the cluster) dictates which Console address should be supplied.

The _--cluster-address_ flag specifies the address Defender uses to connect to Console.
For Defenders deployed inside the cluster, specify Prisma Cloud Console’s service name, twistlock-console or twistlock-console.twistlock.svc, or cluster IP address.
For Defenders deployed outside the cluster, specify the external route for the Console over port 8084 created before, _twistlock-console-8084.apps.ose.example.com_, if the external route is not exposing port 8084, specify the port in the address, e.g. _twistlock-console-8084.apps.ose.example.com:443_ within the defender daemonSet yaml.

Example: Edit the resulting defender.yaml and change:
   - name: WS_ADDRESS
            value: wss://twistlock-console-8084.apps.ose.example.com:8084
to
  - name: WS_ADDRESS
            value: wss://twistlock-console-8084.apps.ose.example.com:443

If SELinux is enabled on the OpenShift nodes, pass the _--selinux-enabled_ argument to twistcli.

For managed clusters, Prisma Cloud automatically gets the cluster name from the cloud provider.
To override the cloud provider’s cluster name, use the _--cluster_ option.
For self-managed clusters, manually specify a cluster name with the _--cluster_ option.

[.task]
===== Option #1: Deploy with YAML files

Deploy the Defender DaemonSet with YAML files.

[.procedure]
. Generate the Defender DaemonSet YAML.
A number of command variations are provided.
Use them as a basis for constructing your own working command.
+
*Outside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the  Prisma Cloud cloud registry.*
Use the OpenShift external route for your Prisma Cloud Console, _--address \https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com_.
Designate Prisma Cloud's cloud registry by omitting the _--image-name_ flag. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _container-runtime_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --selinux-enabled \
    --container-runtime crio
+
*Outside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the OpenShift internal registry.*
Use the _--image-name_ flag to designate an image from the OpenShift internal registry. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _container-runtime_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --selinux-enabled \
    --image-name 172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION> \
    --container-runtime crio
+
*Inside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the Prisma Cloud cloud registry.*
When generating the Defender DaemonSet YAML with twistcli from a node inside the cluster, use Console's service name (twistlock-console) or cluster IP in the _--cluster-address_ flag.
This flag specifies the endpoint for the Prisma Cloud Compute API and must include the port number. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _container-runtime_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://172.30.41.62:8083 \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --selinux-enabled \
    --container-runtime crio
+
*Inside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the OpenShift internal registry.*
Use the _--image-name_ flag to designate an image in the OpenShift internal registry. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _contianer-runtime_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://172.30.41.62:8083 \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --selinux-enabled \
    --image-name 172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION> \
    --container-runtime crio

. Deploy the Defender DaemonSet.

  $ oc create -f ./defender.yaml


[.task]
===== Option #2: Deploy with Helm chart

Deploy the Defender DaemonSet with a Helm chart.

// https://github.com/twistlock/twistlock/issues/13333

Prisma Cloud Defenders Helm charts fail to install on OpenShift 4 clusters due to a Helm bug.
If you generate a Helm chart, and try to install it in an OpenShift 4 cluster, you'll get the following error:

  Error: unable to recognize "": no matches for kind "SecurityContextConstraints" in version "v1"

To work around the issue, you'll need to manually modify the generated Helm chart.

[.procedure]
. Generate the Defender DaemonSet helm chart.
A number of command variations are provided.
Use them as a basis for constructing your own working command.
+
*Outside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the  Prisma Cloud cloud registry.*
Use the OpenShift external route for your Prisma Cloud Console, _--address \https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com_.
Designate Prisma Cloud's cloud registry by omitting the _--image-name_ flag. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _container-runtime_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --helm \
    --container-runtime crio
+
*Outside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the OpenShift internal registry.*
Use the _--image-name_ flag to designate an image from the OpenShift internal registry. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _container-runtime_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://twistlock-console.apps.ose.example.com \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --image-name 172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION> \
    --helm \
    --container-runtime crio
+
*Inside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the Prisma Cloud cloud registry.*
When generating the Defender DaemonSet YAML with twistcli from a node inside the cluster, use Console's service name (twistlock-console) or cluster IP in the _--cluster-address_ flag.
This flag specifies the endpoint for the Prisma Cloud Compute API and must include the port number. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _contianer-runtime_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://172.30.41.62:8083 \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --helm \
    --container-runtime crio
+
*Inside the OpenShift cluster + pull the Defender image from the OpenShift internal registry.*
Use the _--image-name_ flag to designate an image in the OpenShift internal registry. Defining CRI-O as the default container engine by using the _container-runtime_ flag.

  $ <PLATFORM>/twistcli defender export openshift \
    --address https://172.30.41.62:8083 \
    --cluster-address 172.30.41.62 \
    --image-name 172.30.163.181:5000/twistlock/private:defender_<VERSION> \
    --helm \
    --container-runtime crio

. Unpack the chart into a temporary directory.

  $ mkdir helm-defender
  $ tar xvzf twistlock-defender-helm.tar.gz -C helm-defender/

. Open _helm-console/twistlock-defender/templates/securitycontextconstraints.yaml_ for editing.

. Change `apiVersion` from `v1` to `security.openshift.io/v1`.
+
[source,yaml]
----
{{- if .Values.openshift }}
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
metadata:
name: twistlock-console
...
----

. Repack the Helm chart

  $ cd helm-defender/
  $ tar cvzf twistlock-defender-helm.tar.gz twistlock-defender/

. Install the updated Helm chart.

  $ helm install --namespace=twistlock -g twistlock-defender-helm.tar.gz

==== Confirm the Defenders were deployed.

.. In Prisma Cloud Console, go to *Manage > Defenders > Manage* to see a list of deployed Defenders.
+
image::install_openshift_tl_defenders.png[width=800]

.. In the OpenShift Web Console, go to the Prisma Cloud project's monitoring window to see which pods are running.
+
image::install_openshift_ose_defenders.png[width=800]

.. Using the OpenShift CLI to see the DaemonSet pod count.

  $ oc get ds -n twistlock

  NAME                    DESIRED   CURRENT   READY     UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR   AGE
  twistlock-defender-ds   4         3         3         3            3           <none>          29m
+
NOTE: The _desired_ and _current_ pod counts do not match.
This is a job for the nodeSelector.

endif::compute_edition[]


ifdef::prisma_cloud[]
=== Use OC to Deploy the Defender

You can deploy Defenders using the xref:install-oc.adoc[OpenShift OC].
endif::prisma_cloud[]

=== Control Defender deployments with taint

You can deploy Defenders to all nodes in an OpenShift cluster (master, infra, compute).
OpenShift Container Platform automatically taints infra and master nodes
These taints have the NoSchedule effect, which means no pod can be scheduled on them.

To run the Defenders on these nodes, you can either remove the taint or add a toleration to the Defender DaemonSet.
Once this is done, the Defender Daemonset will automatically be deployed to these nodes (no need to redeploy the Daemonset).
Adjust the guidance in the following procedure according to your organization's deployment strategy.

* *Option 1 - remove taint all nodes:*
+
  $ oc adm taint nodes --all node-role.kubernetes.io/master-

* *Option 2 - remove taint from specific nodes:*
+
  $ oc adm taint nodes <node-name> node-role.kubernetes.io/master-

* *Option 3 - add tolerations to the twistlock-defender-ds DaemonSet:*
+
  $ oc edit ds twistlock-defender-ds -n twistlock
+
Add the following toleration in PodSpec (DaemonSet.spec.template.spec)
+
  tolerations:
  - key: "node-role.kubernetes.io/master"
    operator: "Exists"
    effect: "NoSchedule"


[.task]
=== Uninstall

ifdef::compute_edition[]
To uninstall Prisma Cloud, delete the _twistlock_ project, then delete the Prisma Cloud PersistentVolume.

[.procedure]
. Delete the _twistlock_ Project

  $ oc delete project twistlock

. Delete the _twistlock_ PersistentVolume

  $ oc delete pv twistlock

endif::compute_edition[]

ifdef::prisma_cloud[]
To uninstall Prisma Cloud, delete the _twistlock_ project.

[.procedure]
. Delete the _twistlock_ Project
+
[source]
----
  $ oc delete project twistlock
----

endif::prisma_cloud[]
